>> REGINA MEREDITH: How many
of us have spent hundreds,
even thousands, of dollars over
the last decades to make sure
that our water is pure,
particularly purified from
chlorine?
Well, with that
in mind, if I were
to suggest that you could
drink something that
tastes like swimming pool
water for your health,
you'd probably think I'm crazy.
But our guest, Dennis
Richard, is here
to tell you stories of
miraculous recoveries using
sodium chlorite, which has been
dubbed MMS, or miracle mineral
supplement, and it's dirt cheap.
Welcome to the show, Dennis.
This is a subject I've been
fascinated with and followed
for years now.
And you're right at
the center of it.
And the thing is, when
people hear sodium chlorite,
they go, sodium chloride,
why, that's bad for you.
One letter can make
a big difference.
There's sodium chloride
and sodium chlorite,
and I would love
for you to start out
by telling us the
difference between the two.
>> DENNIS RICHARD: OK.
Sodium chloride is
just table salt.
Sodium chlorite is a chemical
that, mixed with acetic acid
or with-- there's
many types of acids
that will work to activate it.
Now, Jim Humble
says that that makes
it 100 times more
potent and powerful.
Now, it's been listed for
probably close to 100 years
as approved for cleansing of
bacteria from processed meat,
from cleaning vegetables,
things of that type,
and it's very effective.
It's one of the world's
most potent germicides.
And Jim is the one that figured
out, by taking it orally,
now it makes such
a huge difference,
and there's very little
potential downside.
Of the thousands
of people that I've
spoke to-- I was the first
distributor of this product
in the United States and the
second in the world-- and so
over the last
seven, eight years,
I've spoken to
thousands of people
from all around the world.
And most everyone
gets a benefit.
>> REGINA: Right.
And not that many
side effects from it,
which we're going
to get into all
the details of the diseases
and the side effects.
And we'll introduce who
Jim Humble is in a moment.
But what is it that we
put in our swimming pools?
Because that's what
this tastes like.
>> RICHARD: OK, that's chlorine.
Now, when you mix sodium
chlorite and citric acid,
it becomes chlorine
dioxide, which
is a totally separate molecule.
So chlorine that you use in
the swimming pool, like Clorox
and things like that--
>> REGINA: Or that is put
it on city water supplies.
>> RICHARD: Exactly.
That's very detrimental
to long-term health,
whereas with the
sodium chlorite,
there's relatively
little downside to it.
>> REGINA: Even though
they smell the same.
They taste the same.
>> RICHARD: Right.
Yeah.
There's the biggest
difference-- I mean,
just that one letter,
like you said,
between chloride and
chlorite, there's
a huge difference in
the chemical make up.
I'm not an expert or
a chemist or a doctor.
I'm just going off
of my own experience
and going from the dozens
of doctors and chemists
I spoke to that take the
time to do the research
and understands this.
There's been well
over 1,000 researchers
done on the use of sodium
chlorite, and none of it's
made mainstream press.
>> REGINA: No, it doesn't
for a really good reason.
A little bottle of it
only costs a few dollars.
>> REGINA: That's right.
>> REGINA: And I knew
a doctor, actually,
who was working with it along
with the protocols of MMS,
I mean MSM prior,
to soften the cells,
start dumping toxins
from the cells,
following up in his
protocol with MMS.
And it was his dream
to distribute this duo
around the planet, because
he was finding that they were
able to clear up AIDS in no time
flat for roughly $7 a patient.
I mean, some really
miraculous-- just like we're
going to talk about
in a little bit.
So this is big.
And what I'd like you to do
is tell the back story of it.
You mentioned Jim Humble.
And get into the story--
and you can take your time,
because it's really
interesting-- of who Jim was
and how he stumbled across
this as an agent for healing
in the body.
>> RICHARD: Well, Jim and I have
a mutual friend who's a retired
Air Force colonel, and I was
listening to him lecture one
night from 7:00 to 9:00
at a lecture in Las Vegas.
That's where I live.
And, anyway, at 9
o'clock, we broke up.
And at midnight, I've
still got him out
in the parking lot
saying, hey, you've
got so much great information.
I want to go with you.
I don't care where you're going.
You get tired of me,
just tell me to get out.
I'll hitchhike home if
necessary, wherever you're at.
But I need to spend
more time with you.
I want to learn more.
He says, well, I'm
on my way to Mexico.
And he says that I'd be
glad to take you with me,
but, he said, I just spent
$70,000 on this microscope,
and it's sitting in
the passenger seat,
and the rest of
his car is packed.
>> REGINA: And was this
Jim or the other guy?
>> RICHARD: No, no.
This is our mutual friend.
So, anyway, he told me, he says,
I'll be down there in Mexico
within a couple of weeks.
He says, why don't you fly in?
I'll pick you up at
the airport and stay
at my house for a few days.
And I said, I think a
few weeks or a few months
might be more like
it, because I see
you have such great information.
I want to learn.
And he said, I don't care.
Stay as long as you'd like.
So, anyway, a couple of
weeks later, I called him up,
and he's at his place in Mexico.
And I said, I want to grab
a flight out tomorrow,
and so can you pick
me up at the airport?
So yeah.
So, anyway, it turns
out that Jim Humble
was staying with him as well.
So he has a really nice
home right on the water.
So we stayed there.
I ended up staying
there three months.
I'm a slow learner.
>> REGINA: How long
did Jim need to stay?
>> RICHARD: Jim stayed
there for close to a year.
>> REGINA: OK.
And so what was it that you
were grokking at that time
from this guy that
plays into this story?
>> RICHARD: OK, well, Jim--
it took me a little while
to understand what he had.
I had been using ozone
since '91 or '92,
and I'd used also
hydrogen peroxide.
These are oxidative therapies--
>> REGINA: Yes.
And effective.
>> RICHARD: --and I've had
really good success using them.
Well, with the MMS-- which
is now changed the name,
I wanted to correct
this right away-- is now
considered the master mineral
supplement because the FDA
didn't like the word "miracle."
>> REGINA: Now we're going to
get into the FDA part of this
story, too, and thank
you for clarifying.
I appreciate you guys
have had troubles.
>> RICHARD: Yes.
So now it's referred to as
the master mineral supplement.
But, anyway, the whole point
is, once Jim explained to me,
this is an oxidant, just like
ozone and hydrogen peroxide,
now I got excited, because
I'd been using those already
for, like, 15 years
with great success.
Now, the advantage to MMS is
the fact that it discriminates.
See, like antibiotics,
ozone, and hydrogen peroxide,
they kill a lot of
the friendly flora
that we need to digest
our food, as well
as the harmful pathogens.
So they kind of,
like antibiotics,
kill indiscriminately,
but they do a great job,
and they've saved
a lot of lives.
This is far superior
because it's
able to discriminate and take
only the harmful pathogens.
And this is a long story
if we get into that.
I don't want to get into
the technical aspects of it
right now, because we could
blow two hours on that alone,
and I'm not that--
>> REGINA: Right.
We'll get into a bit
of it, but go ahead.
>> RICHARD: OK.
Well, anyway, it's turned
out that once I understood
how effective this
could be-- see,
I was about to
lose all my teeth.
Not long before I met these
guys, I had gone to a dentist
to get my teeth cleaned.
And the dentist says,
it's a waste of time.
He says, I just did the exam.
He said you don't have
a tooth in your mouth
that's not loose and ready to
fall out because-- he said,
in six months, you're
going to be toothless.
>> REGINA: How many
years ago was this?
>> RICHARD: This was seven
years ago, maybe eight.
Seven or eight years ago.
Well, anyway, he
says, you're going
to be toothless in
six months, so why
waste the time and money
trying to clean them,
teeth that you're not
going to have anyways.
So he says, we need to pull
them all out right now and just
fit you with dentures.
And I knew that I had
periodontal disease,
because every time I brushed,
my gums bled quite a bit.
So, anyway, Jim got
me started on the MMS,
just mixing up a little bit
and brushing and flossing
every morning and every night.
Within four days, my gums quit
bleeding, and within a week
I could see a huge difference in
how my teeth had tightened up.
Well, anyway, in the
last seven, eight years,
I have not had my teeth cleaned
now in at least eight years.
>> REGINA: That's just shocking.
>> RICHARD: But I
have zero plaque.
Zero plaque.
>> REGINA: And thousands of
people have followed this
protocol with the same results.
Now, and I'll bring up my little
piece of that story in a bit,
because I tried it, too.
Let's go back now
to where Jim was
in British Guiana and
that part of the story.
>> RICHARD: Yes.
OK.
Jim Humble is a mining engineer
with a background in chemistry.
Well, he's also
been into health.
He likes to do things
the natural way.
So as a water
purification supplement,
he always carried a
stabilized oxygen.
Well, he didn't understand it.
He just understood
it worked at the time
when he was going
back into the jungles
doing mining operations.
And that's where he spent a lot
of his life is in the tropics
and exploring for
gold and other things.
Anyway, he has taken
this stabilized oxygen,
and he had two of his men that
were packing his equipment back
into the jungle came
down with malaria.
And he had nothing
to treat it with.
So he sent two of
the runners back
to Bartica, which is in British
Guiana, and the cool thing
and one of the things that
really got my attention,
I had just been to this little
town and the back waters--
I mean, it's a tough trip.
>> REGINA: This is not a place
most people would end up.
>> RICHARD: No.
No.
But, anyway, I just happened
to have been there two
to three years previous, and it
was a memory I'll never forget.
But when I read that this is
where he made this discovery,
I got really excited.
I read 24 hours straight
to read the entire book,
cover to cover.
And it was at night time,
obviously, a lot of the time,
and I had very
poor light, so I'm
holding the book up and
reading the best I could.
>> REGINA: So his runners--
he sends two runners back
to the village.
>> RICHARD: Right.
And these guys, he's
thinking, they're
so sick, they might die
before they get back,
because it's going to
take them three or four
days to get back to Bartica
and get the stuff back to him.
Anyway, it turns out that he
had offered these guys some
of this stabilized oxygen
to see if that would help.
He said, I don't know
if it will help or not,
but, he said, I know it
kills harmful pathogens,
and so he said, why not try it?
And so they said, yeah.
OK.
We'll try anything.
Well, within a few hours,
they were over malaria.
And you know malaria kills
more people every year
than any other
disease in the world.
>> REGINA: I mean, this is just
such a shocking story when I
first learned of it.
>> RICHARD: So he said, within
a few hours, they are up.
They're having their dinner.
The next morning,
they're back to work.
>> REGINA: Amazing.
>> RICHARD: So he said he
was so puzzled by that,
he couldn't believe it.
>> REGINA: And they didn't have
any kind of side effects or?
>> RICHARD: No.
None at all.
So, anyway, he sent
back to the States
and had them ship him a bunch
more of the stabilized oxygen,
not even understanding
what's going
on at that point in his life.
So he started
taking it with them,
and as he was going
from village to village,
he was back in a
very primitive area
where they had-- a lot
of the native Indians
live back there, even though
they are native to there,
and they don't get malaria
as much as people not exposed
to that environment.
He said that, now and then, he
had run into some of them that
had malaria, and he
said, in every case,
it worked and worked
really well and quickly.
So from that point, when
his job was finished
and he went back to the
States, he went back,
and he spent months
researching stabilized oxygen.
What is it?
How did it work?
What does it do?
Well, finally, he
found stabilized oxygen
is chlorine dioxide and that--
>> REGINA: Sodium chlorite.
>> RICHARD: Well, sodium
chlorite mixed with citric acid
makes chlorine dioxide.
But the thing is, it
was in a 3% solution.
Well, he, through his
experimentation-- and he
documents things well.
He used to work for NASA.
He's been an inventor, a
research scientist, in addition
to his background in mining.
So he knows how to
document his trials.
So he documented this and
found that the 28% sodium
chlorite activated.
Now it made such
a huge difference
and it reacted so much faster
than the 3% stabilized oxygen
he was using.
And it turns out that a $20
bottle of the sodium chlorite
will treat hundreds and hundreds
of patients with-- I mean,
it's probably a
nickel or a dime.
>> REGINA: Yes.
This is the same thing
that my colleague, friend
I told you about was doing
in Cambodia and in Thailand,
as well.
Just pennies.
>> RICHARD: Exactly.
And, too, I've had
quite a few missionaries
in different parts of the
world-- and the same areas
you're talking about--
that I've shipped to,
and they are finding
the same results.
I've had a number of them
come back to the States
because they thought
they were dying.
They came back here and
found out about MMS,
and within a couple of days,
they're ready to go back.
Now they feel like
they're armed with what
they need to get the job done
so they can protect themselves.
>> REGINA: Truly, it is like
a miracle to be able to take
a disease as dangerous as
malaria and many others
and just reverse it on the spot.
Then there's nothing to fear
to go back into the jungle.
>> RICHARD: Exactly.
Yeah.
Because I've known a
number of people personally
that had malaria from years back
that continues to bother them.
I mean, they'll get a
relapse for no known reason.
They'll just wake up
in the middle of night
or in the morning, and
it's coming back on 'em,
and it's a miserable,
miserable thing.
And the treatment
is so expensive,
and it's not very good, anyway,
and it takes a long time
to overcome, whereas
this takes a few hours.
So there's tons of money,
millions of dollars,
being spent trying to
find a cure for malaria,
and Jim's had it
now for 15 years.
It might be 17 or 18 now.
>> REGINA: I know.
And the FDA will
not acknowledge it.
They keep trying to
shut you guys down.
But that's the second
part of the story.
Let's talk about you
personally, because now you've
gone to Mexico.
You started getting
a clue as to what's
going on with stabilized
oxygen and such.
Your own health profile in
1991 was less than ideal.
You were retired by this
time, which was probably
a good thing, because you would
have keeled over anyway, right?
>> RICHARD: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And you
weighed 310 pounds?
>> RICHARD: Right.
>> REGINA: With a generous
52 inch waistline.
And you were telling me off
camera, in addition to that,
you could hardly think straight.
>> RICHARD: I couldn't carry
on a conversation without
forgetting my point.
When I retired, my mother
and grandmother both had
Alzheimer's.
And I'm the one going
around like, what were we
talking about?
What was I trying to tell you?
>> REGINA: And you were,
what, in your 50s, early 50s.
>> RICHARD: Right.
Exactly.
And so, in '91, I felt 90.
I felt my life was over.
I had no hope of making
a difference in my life
because I couldn't think.
I couldn't do any research.
>> REGINA: And this was just
a matter of poor diet and poor
lifestyle, just all
the typical suspects?
>> RICHARD: Lack of knowledge
that we just don't understand.
I mean, I lived at McDonald's.
What more can I say?
>> REGINA: So you had
a McDonald's body.
OK.
Gotcha.
>> RICHARD: Anyway, now, health
has become so simple to me,
and that's a purpose in my book.
It took me 20 years to document
this book, because I documented
each health issue and what I
did to overcome each aspect.
And a couple of
years ago, I was very
fortunate to have an
incredible lady come
into my life as a
customer, initially.
She called me and tells
me her health issues.
She said, do you
have any suggestions?
What can I do?
And I said, well, you know,
MMS is a place to start,
because it's so inexpensive.
So why not start at
the least expensive
and see where you go with it?
So, anyway, she had
ordered some from Canada
before, which that was
the first distributor
of the product in
the United States.
And so I went ahead-- now, I'd
become the second distributor
in the world and the first
in the United States.
So it turns out that she lived
about 15 minutes from my house.
And I told her, I
said, well, I've
got an appointment
in a few hours
within five minutes
of your house.
I said, I'll just
drop you some by.
So when I dropped it off to her,
she said, oh, please, please,
don't go.
I've got a lot of questions.
I said, I'm sorry.
I don't have time to talk.
I said, I do conference
calls every Tuesday night.
So I said, you're welcome to
come on a conference call.
It lasts for two
hours, and I'll be
able to answer your
questions, along with 50,
60, 100 other people
at the same time.
And I always host a doctor.
I interview a doctor or
health care professional.
>> REGINA: You've done all of
them, from Deepak Chopra on.
>> RICHARD: Yeah.
Well, that was with my radio
show, was 14 years ago.
And, anyway, it's exciting
to have access to people
with this kind of
knowledge, because now I
know hundreds of doctors
that I can call on the phone.
I've got 4,000 contacts
in my cell phone,
and I've got 33,000
contacts of people
that subscribe to my
weekly newsletter.
So I have a realm of influence
in the alternative world.
>> REGINA: And you're
getting constant feedback.
So the information
is very current.
You're not living off of, like,
a dusty old study of some kind.
This is living and breathing.
Every day people are writing
in, telling of their experience.
>> RICHARD: Exactly.
Before noon today, we
had a two-hour breakfast,
and I've taken at
least 30 other calls
between 6:00 AM and noon today.
So, you know, I got to
bed at 2:30 this morning.
Well, I was in bed
before that, but I
was working on my computer
until 2:30 this morning
and woke up at 6:00
to a phone call.
And I've been on a phone
call or something since then.
So the only time I
get to do my emails,
and that's usually between
10:00 and midnight,
or I might go to sleep at 10:00
and wake up at 1:00 or 2:00
and do my emails,
then, in the morning.
>> REGINA: Well, I mean,
you're proof positive,
because you only sleep
three to four hours a night.
And now you're in
your 70s, and you
have an abundance of energy.
>> RICHARD: Exactly.
I've gone from feeling
90 to feeling better
than I've ever felt in my
entire life, even in my 20s.
And I've gone from a 52 inch
waist to a 36 inch waist.
I'm down to 200 pounds, which
is what I weighed when I was 20,
and I don't remember feeling
this good when I was 20.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
You're a tall guy.
That's fabulous.
OK.
Now, let's take this
story to when you first
started utilizing
the MMS yourself,
and what was happening?
Because you had already
been using, as you said,
the hydrogen peroxide therapy
and other stabilized oxygens,
ozone.
So what happened
specifically with the MMS
that you took it
on to this degree?
>> RICHARD: OK.
May I regress a little bit?
>> REGINA: Sure.
>> RICHARD: OK.
My biggest issue when I retired
was my short term memory
and not being able to
carry on a conversation
without forgetting my point.
Well, the first thing that
I did to get my mind back
was chelation therapy.
So it's a three hour IV
chelation, and in the States,
it run $120 per--
>> REGINA: Explain what
it is, because people
don't understand.
They've heard the
terms in passing,
but most people haven't
studied chelation.
>> RICHARD: OK.
Chelation is a form of cleansing
the circulatory system.
Anything you can do to
remove the blockages
from your circulatory system,
allow more blood flow,
increase the oxygen
to every cell,
the healthier
you're going to be.
And so chelation does that.
>> REGINA: What is in it?
>> RICHARD: The word to
chelate, it's Greek for a claw.
So as they put these minerals
in, these chelating minerals,
like-- I'm trying
to think of the one
specifically for mercury.
Well, there's a number
of doctors, mostly MDs,
that do chelation therapy
in the United States.
>> REGINA: To pull the mercury
out of the body or copper.
>> RICHARD: And this group of
minerals that they use goes
in, and it grabs onto these
harmful metals and other plaque
and then takes it
out of the body.
So this is what I noticed
from my first few sessions--
improved eyesight.
Huge improvement in my eyesight.
Also short term memory.
I was able to start thinking,
and my energy level was up.
I was going from struggling
to walking 100 yards to where,
within three weeks taking
two sessions a week,
I was walking two,
three miles a day.
I remember the most
expensive shoes I ever owned
was snake shoes that I
bought in Costa Rica.
I paid, like, $350 for
them, and that was in '91.
And I walked so
far, all the skin
fell off those shoes that day.
I was brokenhearted.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Your shoes were fine,
as long as you never
needed to actually walk in them.
So much for snake skin.
Not functional.
>> RICHARD: They
were beautiful shoes.
>> REGINA: OK.
So, first of all, you got
your physical energy back
after the chelation, and
your mind started clearing.
So you must have had
excessive toxic levels
of metals in the body
or something that
had collected in
the brain tissues.
>> RICHARD: Exaclty.
>> REGINA: So you got that out.
>> RICHARD: Reason why I wanted
to go back to that before we
started on MMS is
because, 15 years later,
when I ran into MMS, I realized,
after I took them for my gum
and my teeth, primarily, was
how Jim got me started on it,
and it worked so well for that.
And so I started
taking it orally, too.
In those days, we
were taking 15 drops
in the morning and 15
drops in the evening,
because Jim was
under the impression
that it stayed in your
system for 24 hours.
It doesn't.
It only lasts for an hour
and a half to two hours,
and it's gone.
So his new protocols
are every hour,
taking three drops
every hour, opposed
to taking a big
group at one time.
>> REGINA: And this is for a
chronic condition of some kind
that you're trying to reverse.
>> RICHARD: Right.
But the added benefit
that I didn't expect
and Jim didn't
tell me about was I
got a-- once again,
15 years later,
I'm starting to get
brain fog again.
My eyesight's diminishing
again, and my energy level
is down again.
And at this time, I
was down to from 210
to about-- I range
between 260 and 270.
But I got a big boost
again in my energy level,
in my eyesight, in my short
term memory through the MMS.
Plus, in addition to that,
I got a big improvement
in my spiritual awareness.
These are things that
you just don't buy a book
and read about.
These are things you got
experience for yourself.
>> REGINA: So could that have
been because, as you were
talking about with
the chelation,
with the effects of getting rid
of or counteracting whatever
kind of toxins or viruses
and pathogens and such,
you might have been clearing
out aspects or portions
of the brain that hadn't been
utilized or blocked or had
crystallized so that those
little fine glands that do help
with our psychic and spiritual
awareness were starting
to operate more freely again?
>> RICHARD: Yes.
So what I have
found that MMS now--
I finally have accepted the
fact, after talking to about 50
doctors and chemists
that understand
how oxidative therapies
work-- it does not chelate.
But I got the same benefit
as I did with chelation,
but it works in a different way.
Instead of it chelating, it
oxidizes the harmful metals
and the pathogens and
the plaque that-- and so
now it's able to flush
it out of the system.
It cleans the circulatory system
just like the chelation did,
but it's a lot more affordable.
It just does it in
a different way.
So I was so excited about those
benefits, if for nothing else,
I mean, for my first
$20 bottle of MMS,
I seen all these tremendous
benefits that cost me
thousands of dollars to
take the IV chelation.
Because I've probably had
somewhere between 80 and 90
IV chelations.
Each time cost me anywhere
from $60 to $120 in Costa Rica.
>> REGINA: And you're getting
this out of a $20 bottle
of this.
>> RICHARD: Right.
In Costa Rica, I was
paying $60 opposed to $120
here in the States for
the three hour session.
And I have tried some
30 minute sessions.
I would never suggest
wasting your time.
I've had doctors
say, oh, well, we're
getting as good of results,
and it's only half as much.
For $60, we'll give you
a 30 minute session.
Well, I took 10 of those
sessions and seen zero benefit.
So I would encourage anybody,
if you're considering this,
don't do that.
Go with the three hours or
with Dr. Dean Bonlie's protocol
on chelation.
It's more money up front, but
it's a lot cheaper long run.
When you stop and figure I
probably had, quite likely,
90 sessions at an average
cost of probably 80 bucks.
>> REGINA: Right.
And with the sodium
chlorite, that $20 bottle,
you probably had less than
a, like a half a cent,
if that, a half a cent per dose.
>> RICHARD: Yes.
Yes.
So, anyway, there's so many
things out there, what I call
suppressed technology, that
the pharmaceutical industry has
been so good about keeping
suppressed and making people
afraid of, things
like MMS, ozone.
I mean, right now, when
I started using ozone,
I never once ever
heard on the news
about the harmful
effects of ozone.
Well, now, every time you
watch a weather report, there's
a big warning there about
the harmful ozone effects.
You see what I'm saying?
>> REGINA: So it's
trashed by association.
Absolutely.
>> RICHARD: Trying to
psychologically convince people
that ozone is bad for you when
it's a necessity for health.
Every breath we take,
is we take oxygen
in which acts as an
oxidant that helps cleanse
the body with-- get rid
of the harmful pathogens
and things like this.
See, the underlying cause
of nearly all disease
is some form of harmful
pathogen or environmental toxin.
And now, before that,
I should go back
and say it's an imbalance
in internal environment,
but once it gets to the
point that this breeding
ground for these
harmful pathogens exist,
now you're either going
to try antibiotics, which
aren't going to work-- or
they might work temporarily,
but they're creating a long term
issue that's quite likely worse
than where you
were to start with.
Whereas the downside to
the MMS is so slight.
I mean, people now
and then get nauseated
if they take too much, too fast.
Now and then, anymore,
people have gotten diarrhea,
but it's, like,
maybe once a year.
Now, when we're taking
15 drops in the morning,
15 drops in the evening--
>> REGINA: That was harsher.
>> RICHARD: Oh, yeah.
>> REGINA: And I have to say, I
tried it after I heard about--
I mean, I interviewed you few
years ago for CMN on my radio
show, which really
piqued my curiosity.
So I thought, you
know, I think I
need to be a little more
serious about trying this.
And I just-- if a little's
good, more is better.
I don't know what
made me do this,
but I put the activator in
and I had a solution in a cup.
And I doused my toothbrush
in it and then started
brushing my teeth with a
very high percentage of that
in my mouth.
And I felt like
I was coming down
with the flu within a few hours,
because my whole body started
detoxing so rapidly.
And so that was the downside.
And so now your more
gentle protocols
of using just three
drops at a time,
I would think you
probably don't risk--
well, that was my
stupidity, first of all.
But you probably don't risk
those side effects so much now.
>> RICHARD: It's been over
a year since I've talked
to anybody that's had
those kind of experiences.
So it's awesome to be able to
explain how simple this can be.
And you only have to
mix it once a day.
You just mix up a 32-ounce
bottle with a cap on it,
and you leave it sit, and
it will sit for a week.
And you can just screw the
top off, and you can take--
>> REGINA: Much more convenient.
OK, so an area that I'm
really fascinated with,
and I think most people
watching will be,
is all the different conditions
that people have used this for.
Because, I mean, it was called
miracle mineral supplement.
So let's talk about some of
the cancers, for example.
And I know there's
this huge forum that
exists where thousands of people
are sharing their experiences.
So let's just take a few
kind of dramatic examples,
but go into some
depth on it so we
can see ourselves in this story.
>> RICHARD: Now,
going off of what Dr.
Hitt taught me seven
or eight years ago--
>> REGINA: Dr. Who?
>> RICHARD: Hitt.
>> REGINA: H-I-T?
>> RICHARD: H-I-T-T. And it was
a Hitt clinic out of Tijuana.
He's American of German descent.
He went to Germany, which
is the world's leading
developer of ozone technology.
And so he studied in
Germany for a while,
came back to the United States,
found out they wouldn't let him
practice in the United States.
The people that use ozone
therapy in the United States
end up in jail.
So he went to Tijuana
where he had the freedom
to practice as his
conscience dictates
to the benefit of his patients.
He had an incredibly
high reversal
of just about every
imaginable disease,
and he's also had a
Ph.D. in microbiology.
What he taught me was that the
underlying cause of all disease
is some form of harmful
pathogen or environmental toxin.
Well, the ozone
will address that.
It addresses almost every
form of harmful pathogen
and many forms of
environmental toxins.
It oxidizes them and takes
them from-- in a form,
puts them in a form that
the body can eliminate them
through our normal
elimination process,
through our urine and stools and
sweat and that sort of thing.
So, anyway, this is a lot
to do with his protocols.
I don't care whether
it's addictions--
he had an 85% success
rate with addictions.
That blows everybody
else out of the water.
Now, he passed away two
years ago at the age of 84.
And it came from an
infection he picked up
while getting a hip replacement
at a hospital in San Diego.
Now, he overdosed on oxidants.
I mean, you can
overdose on anything.
You can overdose on
antioxidants, and most of us
do, because everybody in the
world is pushing antioxidants.
Well, antioxidants,
they've got their place.
We need a balance in
everything, whether it's
our body temperature,
our blood pH.
In every aspect of our
life, we need a balance
in the internal environment.
Well, if you take too
many antioxidants,
it will definitely
lead to health issues.
If you take too much
oxidation, it'll
start breaking
down healthy cells.
>> REGINA: So what are
the effects of too many
antioxidants?
>> RICHARD: OK.
It's just getting the
body out of balance,
and then harmful
pathogens starts
to grow and get out of control.
>> REGINA: I see.
The opposite of what
you're trying to do.
>> RICHARD: Right.
Exactly.
So when you understand that
the underlying cause of nearly
all disease is this
issue, now it makes sense.
Let's try to get a balance
between our oxidants
and antioxidants.
And, see, to me,
health is so simple.
It's made up of
thousands of pieces
of very complicated pieces
of a puzzle of health.
Doctors all specialize
in some field.
They get so focused on
their field of expertise,
they miss the fact that
this is their picture,
and they think this is it.
This is the picture of health.
It's not.
The picture of
health is like this.
And so when you see how
the pieces fit together,
it's so simple because only
the body can heal itself.
Only we can give it the
opportunity to do it.
So that's pretty amazing
to me that they're
missing this
simplicity of health
because they're trying
to make it complicated,
justifying the high prices
we're paying for health
when we could eliminate
the cost, I believe.
This is my assumption.
I believe we can eliminate
90% of the cost of our health
care in the United States just
by understanding how oxidation
can work complimentary
to everything else that's
being done.
So we don't have to
stop this to do this.
All we need to do is add it
until we find the balance.
There's no money
being spent on that.
>> REGINA: So the chlorine
dioxide or sodium chlorite is
actually working in the
oxidant capacity in the body.
>> RICHARD: Yes.
Now, one thing that
we briefly discussed,
a company called ASEA, if I
may briefly touch on that.
Now, ASEA, I was so impressed
with when they first
started, before they actually
became multi-level and hit
the streets with it.
They flew me to Salt Lake to, I
thought, evaluate the company.
Well, basically, what
they were looking
for is people to
multi-level market it.
But I think I was
the only person
in the room that understood
their product, because they
did, to me, a miracle.
They found a way to stabilize
eight oxidants and eight
antioxidants and give it a
shelf life of a year and a half,
which is unimaginable.
Every doctor and
chemist to this day
have told me you can't mix
oxidants and antioxidants
because one's electron donor,
and one extracts electrons.
So they're just going to negate
the benefit of one another.
Well, ASEA's research has proven
that you can stabilize oxidants
and antioxidants in
the same solution.
And for a year and a
half, that's amazing.
>> REGINA: It is.
Well, now, my
understanding, too,
is they have something
like 30 or 40 patents
either active or pending
with this product.
And one thing they're talking
about-- the buzz word,
as I recall-- tell me
if I'm wrong on that.
I just jotted it
down from memory.
Is it redux
signalling molecules?
What does that mean,
and how is that
differing from the sodium
chlorite or the chlorine
dioxide?
>> RICHARD: OK.
Well, they spent
$28 or $29 million--
a pharmaceutical
company did, creating
a pharmaceutical product.
And once they completed all this
research over-- I don't know,
seven, eight, nine years--
they went to try to get this
patented so they could put
it on the market as a drug.
Well, they found out that
it has no downside at all,
so they couldn't
get it patented,
because they won't allow anybody
a drug permit and license that
doesn't have a
fatal side effect.
>> REGINA: Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Say that again.
You can't get a
patent for something
if there isn't a
contrasting fatal effect?
>> RICHARD: You can't get
approval by the FDA for a drug
that you cannot show
the fatal side effects.
In other words,
you've got to take--
>> REGINA: Is this just to
establish dosage or something?
>> RICHARD: Yeah.
You've got to keep
pushing that dosage
until you find-- I don't know
what the limitations are,
whether they're using mice or
rabbits or whatever that is.
If it doesn't kill
something, and they
can establish a fatal toxic
dose, they won't license it.
>> REGINA: That's crazy.
>> RICHARD: I know.
>> REGINA: So this stuff doesn't
have the potential to kill you.
So ASEA was not able
to get the patent
that they were seeking
for the purpose--
>> RICHARD: They
got the patents,
but they didn't get
approval as a drug.
So what they did,
they shelved it.
They thought, well, what
are we going to do with it?
We can't sell it.
>> REGINA: It had a lot of
scientific research behind it.
>> RICHARD: Yeah.
They had, like, $28 million,
$29 million in the research.
Well, one of the board of
directors on this company
decided, hey, I'm
going to buy it,
and I'm going to put it out
there as a cellular nutrient.
And so he did.
He bought all the
research and everything
and turned this into
multilevel company.
And ASEA worked for some,
but I had so many more
that didn't see a
noticeable benefit.
But I had people
with fibromyalgia
that actually--
one lady called me.
She says, in 36 hours,
I had my life back.
>> REGINA: Wow.
Now, what does that have
to do with the fancy term,
the redux signaling molecule?
>> RICHARD: Well, see, it does
many things as far as cellular
communication.
Every cell is in
contact constantly
with every other cell of
the body, with our brain,
with everything.
We are energy beings
beyond a science ability
to understand just who we
are and how we function.
There's so many forms
of energy we're not
taught in this country.
I mean, most people
aren't even aware--
>> REGINA: It seems to me
that you're talking about
a distribution of information
between the cells, right?
>> RICHARD: Let me
go back to this.
In 1953, I was in the seventh
grade in Henderson, Nevada.
Our science teacher came in,
knocked on the wall, says,
you think that's solid?
Knocked on the desk.
You think that's solid?
And he went around and
pointing at different things.
And he said you believe
these are all solid items?
And, of course, we thought
yeah, well, of course.
He said they're not.
They're 99.999% space.
So he went on to
explain the difference
between the electrons
and neutron,
just like in our solar system.
This giant amount of
space between these areas
leave us 99.999% space.
>> REGINA: Which is hard for
us to get our minds around.
>> RICHARD: Exactly.
We see each other because
we're not seeing the holes.
We're seeing the electrical
energy produced by this.
So you see what I mean?
We're not actually seeing
the hard physical you.
I'm seeing the energy
put off by the color
of your beautiful
shirt and your hair
and your lips and all this.
This is what we're
visualizing, because this
is how we have evolved to where
our mind connects to our brain.
And we're seeing this
in a energy form.
>> REGINA: This is how
we are rendering it.
Our brains, our perceptive
field is rendering it.
Right.
>> RICHARD: I mean, there's a
lot of people that I know that
can look at you
and see your aura.
And this is something that
we can all learn to do,
and I've done it a few times,
but I haven't taken the time
to where I can do it at will.
It takes me a while.
I've got to look off to the
side of you and into the light.
And pretty quick,
I can start seeing
the size and color of your aura.
>> REGINA: The point is these
fields are simply information.
So this redux signaling
molecule is apparently
distributing information in
a way that, like you said
before, what needs to be
addressed is addressed,
and the rest is left alone.
>> RICHARD: Exactly.
>> REGINA: And so why
is it, do you think,
that ASEA is getting a
certain response, but maybe--
would you say, in your
experience, that MMS,
just the straight protocol
MMS, people are getting more
profound reactions from it
than they are from the ASEA,
or is it different?
>> RICHARD: Percentage wise,
people will see far more
benefit from the MMS quicker
because it has its purpose,
like an antibiotic, like I said.
It eliminates
harmful pathogens and
many harmful
environmental toxins.
So the sicker you are, the
quicker you see those benefits.
>> REGINA: I see.
>> RICHARD: Now, health issues
aren't the cause of one thing,
necessarily.
It's usually a group of things
that all happen simultaneously.
But when you get the
environmental toxins
and the pathogens has broken
down the immune system out
of the equation, now
the immune system
can better address whatever
your individual issue is.
So I'm so excited about
the hundreds of people
that's been guests on my show
and that have been kind enough
to take me into their home
like Stephen Daniel's in Maui.
I went over and
spent time with him.
He'd give me a car, let
me stay in his guest home,
and he worked with me a
couple hours a day, teaching--
>> REGINA: What's
his name again?
Who?
>> RICHARD: Stephen Daniel.
And his website is
quantumtechniques.com.
>> REGINA: OK.
I'll look him up.
OK.
Now what I want
to do is get back
to some of the specific
diseases and what you've
seen and experienced through
these numbers of years, you
and Jim both.
I know you have very similar
sites and information.
>> RICHARD: I have
talked to, like I said,
thousands and thousands
of people over the years.
Because on my call every
week, I may speak to anywhere
from 50 to 200 people.
So that adds up quickly.
And then individually, I take
30 to 50 phone calls a day,
and I've been doing that
for the last seven years.
There for a while,
I was getting calls
at 2:00 or 3 o'clock in
the morning from Europe.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
You've heard it all.
Let's go back to
cancer for a sec.
>> RICHARD: So I've talked to
dozens and dozens of people
that have called
me and thanked me,
and that's what motivates me is
the benefit I can be to others
in helping overcome
issues like I had.
>> REGINA: You had
prostate cancer yourself.
>> RICHARD: Yes, I did.
So, anyway, I prayed for
years for the opportunity
to give my life
meaning and purpose
and to where I could help
the world become a better
place for us all.
And now, 30 years on
the fire department,
I would have an opportunity
save somebody's life or property
once or twice a
year, and now I'm
getting that many times daily.
So that's really got me excited.
So I'm determined to make
a difference in the world,
and I think that my book has
got the progression of things
that I've done that it may
not be your exact issue,
but it'll give you
hope and inspiration
and give you the determination.
I'm no smarter than anybody
else, but I'm very determined,
and I go to extraordinary
lengths to get information.
I've gone to Bangkok.
I've been to Cuba.
I've been all over central
and South America and Mexico.
If I find somebody that
has something that's
unique and willing to take
the time to teach me, give me
a chance, I'll
move in with them.
>> REGINA: So let's talk
about some of those cases.
That's what I want to
get to here so people
can start seeing
what's possible.
>> RICHARD: OK.
I don't care what
the health issue is.
This should help.
Because, like I said, if
you can reduce your-- see,
we all have viral
loads, fungal loads,
and different
forms of pathogens.
There are six of major types of
pathogens, and each one of them
are made up of many other
different subcategories.
But when you stop and figure
that they will eliminate
a lot of the stress
on the immune system
once they're gone, it
makes it simple and easy
for the immune system
to address other issues.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And that makes total sense.
I mean, you're talking
about a systemic actual fix,
a clean up and
reboot, so to speak.
So let me ask you a few things,
because I want to know myself.
Lyme disease, also.
What about Lyme disease?
That's so tricky.
>> RICHARD: It is.
And Lyme disease is
probably the only one
that MMS doesn't make a
huge difference by itself.
In other words, it's
a part of the answer,
but there's many other things
that need to go with it.
And one of those
things is iodine.
We're living in
the United States.
Nearly everyone in this
country is deficient in iodine.
I didn't even realize till
a few years ago that iodine
was a mineral.
I just thought it was something
that, back in the old days,
they put on wounds.
I didn't understand what it was.
But now, as I progressed
in my knowledge
and talking to different people,
I met a lady from Pennsylvania.
It's the first one that I talked
to that had overcome Lymes.
And she did it with MMS,
the molecular silver,
and iodine was
the primary thing.
Now, she used other things,
too, like very pure water
that had energy
provided in it that
helped it be more assumable
at the cellular level.
See, if you use distilled water,
there's no life left in it.
RO water, there's
very little left.
My tap water in Las
Vegas is 200 TDS.
That's total dissolved solids.
And the RO water
that I use is two,
and in the distilled
water, it's zero.
Well, when you're trying to put
this water back in your system,
and there's no life
left in it, the cells
don't grab it and absorb
it like they should,
so you need to do
other treatments.
I use the RO water,
and I add minerals back
that I know are
organic, and I add them
and let that sit in the
sun for a couple hours.
The sun energy, combined
with the minerals,
puts the life back in the water.
And then you can drink it,
and the cells can absorb it.
>> REGINA: Yes.
It can assimilate.
And there are other technologies
that are sophisticated,
that have movement and flow, and
that's another subject that I'd
like to cover in
depth one day is all
these technologies to
give life back to water.
So Lyme disease, you
just told us about that,
putting back some iodine.
What about heart disease?
I mean, you were talking
earlier about the chelation
taking the plaques out and such.
What does MMS do for the heart?
>> RICHARD: OK.
Well, it does similar to
the chelation in the fact
that it cleanses the circulatory
system, provides more oxygen,
and usually the heart
issue is a lack of oxygen.
It's not getting
enough oxygen to feed
the brain and the
heart, and those
are the things where our bodies'
innate wisdom sends the oxygen
first and the nutrients because
they want to protect your life,
and your heart and your
brain is your life.
>> REGINA: So the system's
own innate intelligence takes
and utilizes the MMS that way
that it needs to for the heart.
>> RICHARD: Right.
Anyway, see, the individual
aspects of all of these things
starts getting complicated.
That's why these guys go
to school so many years,
and it gets down to a
piece of the puzzle that
becomes very complicated.
And that's why I try
to stay with simple.
You see the picture.
You know this is going to
help, so you just do it,
and you keep doing
things until you
find the right combination
that works for you.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
And every body is
a little different.
But just kind of sticking
with the overview of some
of the different disease
classes and such that people
have come to you
with the MMS, I'm
just trying to get a feel
for the breadth of what
can be affected by it.
And sounds like-- you talked
about your periodontal disease
and what happened there.
That would put periodontists
out of business.
That's not going to be
embraced very easily.
What about degenerative nerve
diseases, things like MS
and all that?
>> RICHARD: What I've found
is alpha lipoic acid has
the ability to help
regenerate nerve damage.
Essential oil
helichrysum does as well.
See, that's how I
got my hearing back.
I had lost half the hearing
in my left ear when I retired
and about 30% in my right ear.
Well, through ear
candling, the use
of essential oils,
magnetic energy,
I was able to get
my hearing back.
So each one of
these issues, I've
got a chapter on in my book
of the things that I've done.
But the two most
important things
that people should consider
that, in order-- nearly
everything I've done
in restoring my health
has been through two
things, oxidative therapies
and magnetic energy.
You know that in the United
States, when people start
talking about energy, they're
all talking about fossil fuels.
Well, I mean, there's
dozens of forms of energy
that, maybe we've
heard the name before,
but we don't understand
how it relates
or how it fits in the
piece of the puzzle.
>> REGINA: Yeah, this
audience is pretty savvy,
so they know about
electromagnetic energy and all
but don't necessarily apply it.
You're talking the applied
use of magnetic energies.
First, let's talk about
the planet itself,
because this is
really important.
>> RICHARD: Exactly.
Now, thousands of years ago,
the Earth's magnetic field
was 40 Gauss.
Today, it's down to 0.5.
So we are energy beings.
Anything we can do to
add cellular energy,
it increases the
spin on electrons,
making them work more
efficient and effectively.
I've healed broken
bones on myself
many times within two weeks as
opposed to six and my family.
I had a beach house in
Mexico some years ago,
and my daughter came down.
And so she used to drink like
I used to when I was young.
So she slipped off a
curb and broke her foot,
and she didn't even realize it.
She went into another bar and
got on one of these horse--
>> REGINA: Oh,
yeah, those bulls?
Mechanical bulls?
>> RICHARD: Got thrown
off a few times.
Give me another beer, you know.
Anyway, she got home at
4:00 AM, and at 6:00 AM,
I hear her screaming in pain.
And so I got up to see
what on earth's happening?
Well, now, her foot's all
swollen up and black and blue,
and she's really crying.
She's in terrible pain.
Well, I took some
big magnets, and I
put the negative field around--
they're four by six magnets--
and I put three of them
around her, and I wrapped it.
Anyway, now I packed it
in ice on top of that.
And she was back to
sleep in 15 minutes.
So, anyway, it turns out--
this was over Cinco de Mayo
about-- I don't know--
eight or nine years ago
in San Felipe, Mexico.
So, anyway, this happened,
like, on Friday night,
and there was no
way you're going
to get into a doctor or
anything else till Monday.
So Monday, I take her to
this doctor that I know,
and he said, it's almost
a waste of time to x-ray
it, because, he says,
there's so little swelling
and no bruising,
he says, there's
no way she's got a broken bone.
And I said, well, I'd like you
to check it, just to make sure.
He took the x-ray, and he
says, that's unbelievable.
I've never seen a
broken bone where
there's not massive swelling and
black and blue and everything.
So I told him what I did.
And so he said, well, he
said, let's put it in a cast.
So we did.
We cast it up, and
then I put the magnets
on the outside of the cast
and showed him how I did it.
Well, anyway, it turns out
that two weeks from the day
of the injury, she took
the cast off herself,
and she was walking on
that foot, two weeks
to the day of the injury.
>> REGINA: That's
pretty impressive.
So the use of magnetic
energy-- I mean,
there are a lot of kind
of sophisticated ways
to incorporate it
into daily life.
You're connected with
somebody in Nevada who
does the magnetic pads, and
we were talking off camera,
and I had one that I'd
gotten in the '90s that's
just kind of forgot
it was even there.
And it turns out
there is a difference
between magnetic pads.
I don't want to go into
brand names or anything,
but you're saying
what has to happen is
you need to have the magnets--
>> RICHARD: Pure negative field.
>> REGINA: Pure negative
field packed closely together.
And the reason for that?
>> RICHARD: OK.
If you have them
separated, see--
>> REGINA: And we only
have a couple minutes left,
so you're going to have
to do this in a thimble.
>> RICHARD: All right.
You can use magnets for
acupuncture treatment.
And what happens, when you get
a separation between the magnets
like this, or you have
alternating polarities,
which some companies, they do.
They have a positive and a
negative and a positive and a
negative, and they
go back and forth.
>> REGINA: I think
that's the one I had.
>> RICHARD: Yeah.
And all of them do
except Dr. Bonlie's.
He's got a patented
process to where
he creates a pure
negative field that
works with the Earth's
gravitational field.
So it takes it from
a 0.5 to 20 Gauss,
which is 40 times the Earth's
magnetic field, giving us
cellular energy that allows
the body to react and function
better.
>> REGINA: I mean, doesn't your
whole electrical field also
need the magnetic interface?
We're an electromagnetic being.
What happens when the
Gauss field of the Earth
is down to 0.5?
How are we even
thinking and functioning
and able to find our
way through space?
>> RICHARD: That's exactly
why we're having all these
epidemics of disease, because
we can't fight them off.
We don't have the energy
at the cellular level
to resist a lot
of these diseases
that we didn't even hear about.
>> REGINA: And I was also
told that this has to do with
the electrical signaling
aspects of the heart,
and also seizure activity,
which has also been increasing
greatly, that if you have
proper magnetic support,
then these kinds of anomalous
seizures even a lot of young
people are having now
essentially dissipated.
>> RICHARD: Yes.
That's correct.
>> REGINA: And you
sleep on this, right?
>> RICHARD: Yes.
>> REGINA: OK.
That's cool.
>> RICHARD: If I may, if
anyone's interested in buying
my book--
>> REGINA: Yeah, we'll take them
to your website to have them do
that.
Any final thoughts?
We have just a couple
of minutes left.
About whatever else you want to
do to tie the story together.
>> RICHARD: OK.
I love feeling 20 years old,
and you can't fake that.
I mean, you know, when
you go from 90 to 20,
it just blows your mind.
And I'm so excited
about what I've
been able to learn that I want
to share that with everybody,
because I think it's
within everyone's ability
to reverse their health issues
and a lot of their aging
process.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And although we didn't
talk about it specifically,
I brought it up a couple of
times as kind of a little bait
to talk about the
whole cancer issue,
but the reality is, they're
finding now that molds, fungus,
and so forth are at the
base of most cancers.
And so, again, by
cleaning up the system,
and through these
various techniques
that you have chronicled in
this book, a lot of people
have reversed
their cancers, too.
>> RICHARD: Exactly.
Yeah.
Dr. Hulda Clark has got a
book out called A Cure for All
Cancers, A Cure for All Disease.
And I highly recommend it.
I've done every one
of her cleanses.
>> REGINA: You're right.
It's excellent.
>> RICHARD: Yeah.
And it's a place to start.
You got to get rid of the
things that break down
the immune system in order to
allow the rest of it to work.
>> REGINA: And you've got to
stop letting the doctors tell
you there's only one
way to do this thing.
>> RICHARD: Exactly.
>> REGINA: And that's
really a big part of it.
And on that note, Dennis,
I want to thank you
so much for your time.
You're a walking encyclopedia.
Absolutely.
So it's definitely worth
people checking out your work.
As always, Dennis and most of my
other guests on Healing Matrix
have one thing in mind,
helping people take back
control of their health.
As our medical system continues
to decline in its effectiveness
and options, there are
amazing people like Dennis
out there to connect
with to help yourself
and your loved ones.
Meanwhile, you can pick
up a copy of his book,
Your Health Is Your Choice, and
learn more about his other work
by going to
a2zhealthproducts.com.
Meanwhile, we'll data
mine Dennis' brain again
in the future for more
self help home cures.
Until, tell next time, thank
you for joining us here
on Gaiam TV.